# Check the file you received

https://thedollscout.com/verify-file
Published by TDS Document Scout
Updated: 2026-09-27

Is this the same file your sender intended? Compare it with their verification link, locally in your browser.

One file, up to 20 MiB. File contents stay in this tab.

Select the exact file you plan to send.

Create a link and send it alongside the file through your usual channel.

The recipient selects their copy and checks its fingerprint.

A match means the SHA-256 fingerprint and byte length agree with the supplied reference. It does not establish sender identity, authorship, safe content, delivery, acceptance or a trusted time. Get the reference through a channel you trust.

The link contains a fingerprint and file size, but no file name, notes or contents. Anyone with it can test a candidate file. The link may be retained by the app you share it through. TDS does not send its fingerprint to analytics.

The format is public. Keep the link and verify the SHA-256 and byte count using your own software. Our small downloadable verifier runs offline with Node.js.

Download a working starter with a known example, an offline runner and an optional GitHub Actions template. No npm dependencies or API keys.

Unzip and run: node tools/run-file-check.mjs. The example must match.

Change the example file while keeping its reference. Run again: the check must fail.

Replace both with your own file and a separately trusted reference.

The scripts never contact TDS. Optional GitHub use uploads files to your repository and prints fingerprints in logs; keep confidential files offline or in an appropriately restricted repository. A match proves only file equality, not delivery or acceptance.

OpenTimestamps is a separate service and protocol for time proofs. A TDS verification link does not create a Bitcoin timestamp.

How to verify a file checksum independently

A SHA-256 checksum describes file contents. In TDS, a match requires both the same SHA-256 digest and the same byte count as the sender’s reference. Compare the exact downloaded file, not a screenshot or an exported copy.

Why do two PDFs that look the same have different hashes?

A saved PDF can contain changed metadata, compression or other bytes even when the visible pages look unchanged. For wording changes use Compare PDF text; use a checksum for exact-byte comparison.

Does a matching checksum prove a file is safe?

No. A malicious file can match its own checksum. Obtain the reference through a trusted channel; this tool does not scan for malware, verify identity or certify delivery.

Can I paste any published SHA-256 digest here?

This interface accepts a complete TDS reference link, which also includes the byte count. For a raw digest, use the commands below and compare it manually.

A reproducible three-byte example

Create a plain file containing exactly abc with no newline. It has 3 bytes and this SHA-256 digest. Renaming it leaves the digest unchanged; changing its contents or adding a newline changes it. The built-in known example uses these same bytes.

ba7816bf8f01cfea414140de5dae2223b00361a396177a9cb410ff61f20015ad

Replace document.pdf with your own file path. These commands read the file locally. Compare the digest and byte count with the TDS reference; uppercase and lowercase hexadecimal letters represent the same digest.

Get-FileHash -LiteralPath 'document.pdf' -Algorithm SHA256

(Get-Item -LiteralPath 'document.pdf').Length

sha256sum -- 'document.pdf'

wc -c < 'document.pdf'

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/get-filehash

https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/manual/coreutils.html

Reference material
- W3C: PDF reading order: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Techniques/pdf/PDF3
- W3C: text alternatives in PDF: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Techniques/pdf/PDF1
- Mozilla PDF.js: https://mozilla.github.io/pdf.js/
